---
title: 2025 International Workshop on Performance, Portability & Productivity in HPC
layout: page
show_sidebar: false
menubar: 2025_workshop_menubar
permalink: /workshop/2025/submissions/
css: sc25
hide_footer: true
---

# Submitting a Paper

Authors are invited to submit original papers of no more than 12 pages,
excluding references and all appendices.  Papers must be at least 5 pages long,
and no more than 16 pages including references and all appendices. Full papers
will be published in the SC25 Workshops Proceedings.

All submissions must be formatted using the ACM proceedings template. The ACM
conference proceeding templates for LaTeX and MS Word provided 
[here](https://www.acm.org/publications/proceedings-template).

Papers must be submitted electronically [via Linklings](https://submissions.supercomputing.org).

Submissions will be reviewed by the program committee using a single blind
review process with each submission receiving at least three reviews. Minor
revisions will be accepted for the camera ready version and major revisions may
be allowed based on the guidance of the submissions reviewers. 

## Important Dates

{% include_relative important_dates.md %}

## Reproducibility Appendix

The P3HPC workshop encourages submissions to follow the reproducibility
initiative of SC25. Authors are encouraged to include an Artifact Description
(AD) and Artifact Evaluation (AE) appendix detailing available artifacts and
any steps taken to increase the trustworthiness of their results. Please note
that the AD/AE appendices are included as part of the page limit. For more
information see [here](https://sc25.supercomputing.org/submit/reproducibility-initiative/)

The nature of performance portability involves demonstrated performance across
multiple architectures, hence authors should describe artifact components
across all architectures employed, such as compiler, runtime and application
configurations.  Authors should clearly document and explain the reasoning
behind such configuration differences, to assist future researchers seeking to
reproduce their experiments on future architectures.
